# Why This Architecture For A Small Minecraft Community

The architecture was simpler since we started self and managing our infrastructure. With Heavy Node, our previous server provider, our owner was paying around 400 USD per year to host two servers. Looking back at it this was a decent price for not having to worry about managing the servers for yourself. But once switching to Oracle servers having multiple servers was way cheaper than with Heavy Node. The architecture has changed over a year as our needs grew. For example, we implemented a map for our servers along with analytics software that both requires websites and places to store the data. All these services could easily run on the servers themselves without needing Nginx or MariaDB for data storage but between my curiosity about how these services work and just wanting to have a more official type of system, we have implemented these services. The use of Docker containers to implement ALL of our services and not just the Minecraft servers was a recent change about two weeks as of this publishment. This was partially done to allow us to easily deploy and diagnose a container without disturbing the other services or the underlying instance itself. It also allows us to update our panel(pterodactyl) and interface(wings) easily which is the MAIN reason why I pushed for this architecture. It may seem arbitrary to go through this length from an arguably simpler architecture to a more "complex" architecture, but the developers of pterodactyl do not feel the need to make an update button on the GUI of their services because there are commands to run to do it. Now while I don't mind using the terminal to do whatever I need to do, I don't think it is unreasonable to make it easier to do an update by just adding a button that will update the panel and do a restart if necessary, but that is just my opinion and it may just be me being lazy.
